# Glossary

## Key Concepts

### Anti-Money Laundering:

Anti-money laundering (AML) refers to a set of laws, regulations, and procedures intended to prevent criminals from disguising illegally obtained funds as legitimate income.

International Monetary Fund, Reference Guide to Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism Second Edition and Supplement on Special Recommendation IX, 2006.

### Atomic Compartmentalization

Even counterparties to the same business-to-business Workflow typically must not have access to -- or even awareness of -- processes that they are not directly involved in. A Workflow that can restrict access and awareness to a specific set of Parties down to a single Step or Record has achieved "atomic compartmentalization." With the Mainnet, this kind of compartmentalization can be said to be "silo-less," because, while each Step in a Workflow can restrict awareness and access, different Workflows -- even ones created and operated separately over a long period -- can integrate Steps. Workflow A can pass parameters between it Step A\#33 with Workflow B's Step B\#22, if done with care, and the logic and data can be made compatible. There is still work there to integrate the different Workflows, but because they are all baselined on the same Mainnet, this can be done at the application/business-process level. One need not call a network administrator to set up a new channel or figure out which private blockchain network will be primary.

### Baseline-Bridge

A mechanism for one Workflow to use the proof generated by a different Workflow. to use a proof generated in a Workflow executed by Workgroup A as input to a Workflow executed by Workgroup B.

### Baseline Protocol

The Baseline Protocol is a set of methods that enable two or more state machines to achieve and maintain data consistency, and workflow continuity by using a network as a common frame of reference.

### Baseline-Connector:

Proposed: An interface connecting and synchronizing a baseline stack and system of record.

### Byzantine Fault Tolerant (BFT):

Given a network or system of n components, t of which are dishonest, and assuming only point-to-point channels between all the components, then whenever a component A tries to broadcast a value x such as a block of transactions, the other components are permit-ted to discuss with each other and verify the consistency of A's broadcast, and eventually settle on a common value y. The system is then considered to resist Byzantine faults if a component A can broadcast a value x, and then:

    If A is honest, then all honest components agree on the value x.
    If A is dishonest, all honest components agree on the common value y.

"The Byzantine Generals Problem", Leslie Lamport, Robert E. Shostak, Marshall Pease, ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 1982.

### Circuit Breaker:

The ability of a Party to immediately cease all their active Workflows across all of their Workgroups within a Baseline-compliant implementation, and, if required, exit a Baseline-compliant implementation with all their data without any 3rd party being able to prevent the exit.

### Common Frame of Reference:

A Common Frame of Reference as used in this document refers to achieving and maintaining data consistency between two or more Systems of Record using a consensus controlled state machine. This enables workflow and data continuity and integrity between two or more counterparties.

### Consensus Controlled State Machine:

A Consensus Controlled State Machine is a network of replicated, shared, and synchronized digital data spread across multiple sites connected by a peer-to-peer and utilizing a consensus algorithm. There is no central administrator or centralized data storage.

### Electronic Record:

Information captured through electronic means, and which may or may not have a pa-per record to back it up.

Bulletin of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, Electron-ic Records Research Working Meeting: A Report from the Archives Community, May 28‐30, 1997.

### Identity:

The condition of being the same with something described or asserted, per Merriam-Webster Dictionary.

A concretization of the above used in this document: Identity is the combination of one or more unique identifiers with data associated with this/these identifier(s). Identity associated data consists of signed certificates or credentials such as verifiable credentials and other unsigned, non-verifiable data objects generated by or on be-half of the unique identifier(s).

Merriam-Webster Dictionary, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/idntity

### Interoperability:

The ability of a Party operating Workflows on a baseline-compliant implementation A to instantiate and operate one or more Workflows with one or more Party on a baseline-compliant implementation B without the Party on either implementation A or B having to know anything of the other Party’s implementation.

### Liveness: 

In concurrent computing, liveness refers to a set of properties of concurrent systems, that require a system to make progress, despite its concurrently executing components ("process-es") may have to "take turns" in critical sections, parts of the program that cannot be simultaneously run by multiple processes. Liveness guarantees are important properties in operating systems and distributed systems.


Alpern B, Schneider FB (1985) Defining liveness. Inf Proc Lett 21:181-185

### **Mainnet**

The Mainnet is an always-on state machine that is maintained as a public good in such a way that it maximizes the resistance to an individual or group to gain control, lock out users from valid functions, or change history. The term, Mainnet, is capitalized to emphasize its relationship to the capitalized Internet.

Used without capitalization to distinguish a public production network from public testnets. For example, the Ethereum mainnet vs. its testnets, such as ropsten.

### Master Services Agreement (MSA): 

A legal contract that defines the general terms and conditions governing the entire scope of products commercially exchanged between the parties to the agreement.

### Middleware

There are many forms of middleware. We use the term in the context of the Baseline Protocol in a particular way. Systems of record maintained by legally separate entities require a common frame of reference in order to run business process integration across them. Flow control, ensuring that two processes don't run inappropriately against the same shared state, terminating the back and forth of the [two generals problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Two_Generals%27_Problem), non-repudiation, etc. In this context, the protocol is primarily about loose-coupling architecture in the transaction-processing middleware \(TPM\) area. It is not necessarily about schema translators, though a typical system would very likely run CRUD access between a baseline server and a system of record through translation services in a traditional Enterprise Service Bus \(ESB\). Unlike some RPC middleware, the Baseline Protocol is asynchronous, though it is certainly about passing parameters between functions running on two or more remote machines...and ensuring consistency between them.

### Non-Repudiable: 

Refers to a situation where a statement's au-thor cannot successfully dispute its authorship or the validity of an associated contract. The term is often seen in a legal setting when the authenticity of a signature is being challenged. In such an instance, the authenticity is being "repudiated".

### Party:

A set of Parties participating in the execution of one or more given Workflows. A Workgroup is set up and managed by one Party that invites other Parties to join as workgroup members.

### Portability:

The ability of a Party to migrate and re-baseline its existing Workflows and data from one baseline-compliant implementation to another baseline-compliant implementation without any 3rd party being able to prevent the migration.

### Privacy Assurance Mechanism:

A way of ensuring the privacy of Workflow data represented on a public Mainnet. - permissionless vs public - to discuss and review.

### Proof of Correctness: 

A Proof of Correctness is a mathematical proof that a computer program or a part thereof will, when executed, yield correct results, i.e. results fulfilling specific requirements. Before proving a program correct, the theorem to be proved must, of course, be formulated. The hypothesis of such a correctness theorem is typically a condition that the relevant program variables must satisfy immediately before the program is executed. This condition is called the precondition. The thesis of the correctness theorem is typically a condition that the relevant program variables must satisfy immediately after execution of the program. This latter condition is called the post-condition. The thesis of a correctness theorem may be a statement that the final values of the program variables are a particular function of their initial values.

"Encyclopedia of Software Engineering", Print ISBN: 9780471377375| Online ISBN: 9780471028956| DOI: 10.1002/0471028959, (2002), John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

### System of Record:

The integrity of the data in data architecture is established by what can be called the “system of record.” The system of record is the one place where the value of data is definitively established. Note that the system of record applies only to detailed granular data. The system of record does not apply to summarized or derived data.

W.H. Inmon, Daniel Linstedt and Mary Levins, "Data Architecture", 2019, Academic Press, ISBN: 978-0-12-816916-2

### Trust Model:

Collection of entities and processes that Service Providers rely on to help preserve security, safety, and privacy of data and which is predicated on the use of a CCSM implementation.

Marsh S. (1994). "Formalizing Trust as a Computational Concept". PhD thesis, University of Stirling, Department of Computer Science and Mathematics.

### Verifiably Secure:

Verifiable computing that can be described as verifiably secure enables a computer to offload the computation of some function to other perhaps untrusted clients, while maintaining verifiable, and thus secure, results. The other clients evaluate the function and return the result with a proof that the computation of the function was carried out correct-ly. The proof is not absolute but is dependent on the validity of the security assumptions used in the proof. For example, a blockchain consensus algorithm where the proof of computation is the nonce of a block. Someone inspecting the block can assume with virtual certainty that the results are correct because the number of computational nodes that agreed on the outcome of the same computation is defined as sufficient for the consensus outcome to be secure in the consensus algorithm’s mathematical proof of security.

Gennaro, Rosario; Gentry, Craig; Parno, Bryan (31 August 2010). Non-Interactive Verifiable Computing: Outsourcing Computation to Untrusted Workers. CRYPTO 2010. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-14623-7_25

### Workflow:

A process made up of a series of Worksteps between all or a subset of Parties in a given Workgroup.

### Workstep:

A workstep is characterized by an input, the deterministic application of a set of logic rules and data to that input, and the generation of a verifiably deterministic and verifiably correct output.


## WIP section - Placeholder for future updates


### Workgroup

A set of Parties \(defined in the orgRegistry\) when a Registrar factory smart contract is called to start a Workflow.

### Task

Different Workflow Steps implement either all or a subset of Tasks, such as selecting a set of counter-parties, serializing a record, sending messages, sometimes executing off-chain functions \(not in Radish34, but definitely in protocol-compliant stack\), executing and sending/receiving EdDSA sigs, invoking ZK service, sometimes ensuring that the ZK circuit \(or a code package/container in a non-Radish34 implementation\) of a previous Step is executed correctly \(only for Steps that follow previous steps that enforce 'entanglement'\)...etc. The set of Tasks that a Step implements is called its LifeCycle. Most of these Tasks invoke on or more Components.

### Components

In the Baseline Protocol context, Components are just the general term for services, smart contracts, etc., like the ZK service, messenger and smart contracts. Some of these are not in the current Radish34 implementation as distinct components, but some/all should be constructed in the protocol work.

### Baseline Server

In Radish34, there isn't a coherent "Baseline Server", but in the ultimate reference implementation of the protocol, the set of off-chain Components and APIs to messaging, systems of record, etc. presumably will be packaged as the "Baseline Server".

### Baseline Proof

There are several things passed to the Mainnet, primarily from the ZK Service, in the process of _baselining_ a Workflow Step. An important one is a hash, which is stored in the Shield contract \(created when setting up a WorkGroup by the Registrar "factory" smart contract, along with the orgRegistry and Validator contract\). This happens when a Step successfully passes the ZK validation process. The Baseline Proof is a "proof of consistency" _token_, and also is used as a state-marker for managing Workflow integrity.

### CodeBook =&gt; Package

During the Radish34 project, the notion of a shared "codebook" was often discussed. This in concept refers to a collection of artifacts or library components that enable a business process to be "baselined", but in general is extensible to any such components that subject to a business process. These artifacts in the case of Radish34 and presumably what would be "importable" components include the zk snark based circuits for usage in off chain zkp based proof generation and/or other logical components representing a business logic in a workflow process.

### orgRegistry Contract

Think of the orgRegistry Contract as a "rolodex" contacts list. In the future, and in particular when the decentralized identity standard \(DID\) is well established, this can be populated from a global "phone book" of pre-verified organizations..so you know when you add a company to your WorkGroup, you are baselining with the company you think you're working with.

### Shield Contract

The Shield Contract holds a Merkle Tree that holds the Baseline Proofs. The off-chain ZK Service will send the proof to the Shield contract, which will call the Verifier contract. If the Verifier contract returns 'true', then the proof is stored in a leaf on the Merkle Tree.

### Verifier Contract

The Verifier Contract is the on-chain component of the ZK Service, which ensures that a baseline proof is only deposited on the Mainnet if all Counter-parties have performed the Workflow Step consistently and have adhered to the rules of any previous Workflow Step. In the Radish34 POC, a good example of this is the MSA to PO Workflow.


## Radish34-Specific Terms

\(work in progress...see [Radish34]() section for full documentation.\)

RFP: Request for proposal is a document issued at the beginning of a business process containing a request for a good transfer placed by a intending buying party. In some cases RFPs are issued in public, and in some cases they are issued in private in a point to point communication mode

Bid/Proposal: The response to an RFP, wherein an intended selling party proposes their acceptance of the RFP, and addition of contractual terms for the intended procurement of goods. These terms vary from use case to use case, and in the case of Radish34 this is represented by a volume discount structure which typically is negotiated between the buying and selling parties

MSA: Master Service Agreement is a document/contract issued to mark the beginning of the procurement process issued by the buying to the selling party and contains the terms agreed upon as in the bid/proposal. Typically, this is a material process and require co-signing of the agreements, that can be verifiable and provable.

PO: Purchase order is a document/token issued to begin the ordering process and that needs to maintain linkage to the MSA and thereby the terms agreed upon in the MSA.





